um next we have an incredible uh
presentation for you from Raphael arar
who works at the Nexus of complex
systems transdisciplinary design and
arts-based research his work highlights
the social political and economic
implications of technological
acceleration and human to machine
interaction Raphael currently leads
design at one project an organization
that seeks to co-design implement and
scale new forms of equ uh new forms of
econ iics and governance that are
Equitable ecological and effective he
also serves as a board member uh at
Leonardo the international Society for
the Arts sciences and technology and one
of our great Partners on this Festival
there's a lot more I could say but I
will leave it to Raphael thanks
everybody thank
you all right hi everybody um thanks so
much for having me here
today um as introduced I'm rapael arar
and um I'll just start by saying that
I've been been pretty fascinated by
systems for a really long time and have
sought out opportunities to uncover
trans disciplinary ways to make sense of
them so concretely uh that's often meant
that I found myself in a Perpetual state
of intersection as an artist a designer
a researcher and have found myself most
at home in R&D spaces navigating complex
ambiguous
problems and so I've used tools from a
hybrid background as both an artist and
designer designer relying upon research
as a throughout through line throughout
my practice in spaces like Enterprise
where I helped apple and IBM scale a
design program across various industries
from transportation to
healthcare and so this meant designing
Enterprise interaction models for new
hardware like the iPad Pro the Apple
watch and some of the major iOS updates
and along the way um I really learned
how to scale a program globally and
consider commonalities across seemingly
disperate forms of
Labor working at IBM research I
collaborated with other
interdisciplinary researchers to develop
novel prototypes and ideas around some
of the new artificial intelligence and
machine learning services that IBM was
rolling out spanning conversation to
emotional machine intelligence and the
ethical underpinnings of
them and so this led to many semi
obsolete software
prototypes and thanks to llms a couple
of pretty obsolete
books um but it was an IBM research
where I learned how to work with diverse
teams to develop transdisciplinary
methods that sought to harmonize
participatory design and emerging
technology and it was there where I
started rigorously experimenting with
art as a form of
research and some of that art-based
research on emotion detection helped
directly influence IBM's Ai and ethics
principles around explainability and
transparency so feeling this ongoing
tension between my personal values and
the incentives of big Tech I left the
sector to explore a deeper more
meaningful more personal and more
structural system
education so at KH Academy a non a
nonprofit looking to democratize public
education I explored the intersection of
computing pedagogy and motivation in
both speculative and immediate
ways so this included how to think about
motivation and the pipeline between
extrinsic and intrinsic motivation where
the former meaning you're doing
something for a grade whereas the latter
is doing something for just the love of
learning um and thinking about that kind
of conversion across not only widely
different ages but also class
backgrounds and those ideas help shape
some of the longer term visions and
immediate product releases of KH
Academy's core platform for its user
base as we thought deeply about the
different roles of Education um from
Learners to teachers to parents and even
School
administrators and so now I'm at one
project and I'm working on a system that
really undergirds the preceding Focus
areas and one of the utmost personal
importance political economy and post
capitalism more
broadly and it's that one project where
I'm applying all of these past
experiences to our design effort so
things like platformization at a global
scale shared infrastructure amongst
disperate economic relations the
affordances of Technology as a way of
bridging
socioeconomics and transdisciplinary
design methods to address complex
problems so one project is an
organization whose mission is to support
the global transition to a more
Equitable ecological and effective
system of economics and
governance and we believe that the
ailments that we face as a society today
are direct results of the misaligned
incentives of our political
economy see the basic design of
capitalism centered on private ownership
and the maximization of profit that's
divorced from deeper human social or
ecological values really incentivizes
and generates the destruction of the
earth humanity and eventually itself so
we need more than reform and so our
hypothesis of change is deeply rooted
and inspired and shaped by the climate
Justice alliance's Just transition
framework so at one project I lead a
team that's been exploring co-imaging
and co-designing the kinds of socio
technical infrastructure that can enable
alternatives to capitalism to root and
flourish and my team has a handful of
core assumptions that it's operating off
of namely that there have been massive
technological advancements advances that
have enabled unprecedented capabilities
and possibilities in political economy
and collective intelligence including
things like Network effects that can
build power speed scale and resilience
so web 2 birthed these Network effects
and web 3 has now paved the way for the
potential for Federated coordination and
in the past year alone we've seen
massive activity in the AI
space and so at one project we believe
that these new forms of soot technical
infrastructure can and should be applied
to a post capitalist
agenda because ultimately with
communities networks individuals and the
planet we seek to collaborate ly build
scalable infrastructure that can
accommodate local
self-determination and Global
cooperation to arrive at a plural
infrastructure so I want to be very
clear this is a bold ambitious mission
that we have no intention of doing alone
but together and learning from the
amazing work that's already out
there see there are many alternatives to
capitalism that exist at the local and
Regional scales like the work of
cooperation Jackson a Grassroots
initiative in Jackson Mississippi
focused on building economic democracy
through Cooperative
Enterprise the Boston uima project who
created and operate the first
democratically run investment
[Music]
firm rojava a self-governing region in
Northern Syria championing direct
democracy gender equality and ecological
sustainability upholding the principles
of libertarian municipalism and many
other communities initiatives and
networks like
them we also want to be learning from
the past like the many attempts at
alternatives to capitalism that have
faced unrecoverable exogenous or
endogenous shocks let's think of the
alert cyberin project that helped
realize a short-lived Democratic
socialism in Chile in the
1970s before a us back coup quashed
it there have also been any theoretical
visions of alternatives to capitalism
that have yet to be realized so these
Visions range from ways to do Democratic
economic planning as a counter to Soviet
style Central planning to new forms of
exchange based on the principles of
commoning and the commons a key property
of open-source software to even revamped
explorations of markets that rely upon
workers democratically owning the means
of production and no Stock
Exchange
so we've been researching these
models digesting
them designing speculative
infrastructure against them and have
even started to build robust simulations
based on
them we've explored the types of
software that might support their
realization like this app for
participatory economics a model that
details out a path forward with no
markets but rather robust and iterative
year yearly planning
process I kind of like to think of it as
something like Turbo Tax meets shopping
on
Amazon or process diagrams and
speculative software that might support
the realization of a relatively new
model for Democratic economic planning
from Economist Daniel es Saros that
considers technological infrastructure
as a primary means of exchange
relations
and honestly we found all of this
research inspiring past present and
future and yes we can absolutely spend
hours days and years critiquing them but
frankly I'm just delighted that they
exist and that we have and have had a
set of bright Minds iterating upon such
deep complex questions navigating spaces
of theory and
practice and so in doing this research
and speculation our intent again is not
to create one monolithic economic system
that can transition the masses see that
economic system must evolve through a
procedural process rooted in the values
of economic
democracy but rather to build upon the
quote from the zapatistas we're
interested in co-creating the kind of
infrastructure that can help realize a
world where many worlds fit how might we
enable the experimentation learning and
sharing of tools tactics and strategies
to cultivate entirely new forms of
coordination to
emerge so how do we get there well our
method involves bringing people
knowledge and resources together to
design a people's infrastructure tools
and systems that help us work more
harmoniously for the benefit of all and
to do this we practice participatory
design and mutual
learning so participatory design is at
the heart of our codesign process and it
means that a group of people and
organizations collaborate to develop
solutions that meet a community's needs
it's a process that prioritizes the
input of the most vulnerable and under
represented in a group so that any
solutions that are built use a community
strengths and really meet Community
needs Mutual learning is another key
tenant of our approach and we believe
that each person carries unique wisdom
and this approach encourages learning
sharing and growth for everyone involved
we combine both theory and practice
dreaming and discovering and in this
work we pay close attention to how ideas
and tools take root from Individual to
individual family to family community to
community and learn from what
works and so we've been coupling this
approach with the bridging of two key
polarities vision and transition and
microeconomics and
macroeconomics so on the first polarity
we begin with a vision we trial it or a
portion of it and then rework the
original Vision based on what we learn
and we believe that this method allows
the biggest ideas to evolve based on the
insights and experiences of the
community and every participant so we're
inspired by a practice from strategic
foresight known as backcasting which
involves a envisioning a future State
and then working backward to identify
the steps necessary to achieve it this
approach involves setting clear goals
and then identifying the actions
required to achieve them rather than
simply extrapolating from current trends
so our approach is a slight tweak and we
call it iterative backcasting and the
idea is to imagine a desirable future
state with just enough Fidelity such
that we can take a transitionary step
toward it and that step serves as a
minimum viable experiment with enough
criteria to learn from its outcome and
adjust the vision accordingly and so we
anticipate doing this kind of back and
forth to help cut the distance between
the transition phases in a continuously
updated future
State on the economic side of things we
believe that what happens at the
microeconomic layer should enforce form
the macroeconomic layer and vice versa
see a scalable platform needs the
ability to operate at varying levels of
fidelity from Individual to individual
Community to community and even large
Network to network and this is precisely
why we're inspired by the grass uh the
efforts in Grassroots communities
experimenting with new and old forms of
economic relations that are different
from our status
quo we're also interested in how they
might scale including the kinds of phase
shifts that occur when a community moves
Beyond dunar number see there are
certain practices and economic relations
that function well in small numbers when
you personally know the other person who
you might be buying bread from but when
you get disconnected from the means of
production things can become complicated
and difficult to manage and so as for
the inverse there are Global challenges
that span borders like carbon emissions
and affect communities at the local at
the local level so we want to be
considering the interplay between these
scale layers and how one informs the
other so where has all this research and
framing taken us well we've taken a page
from the product design toolkit and have
been stewarding and calling upon others
to help shape a design specification or
a spec for the kinds of goals and
requirements that economic and
government system sys might strive for
things like people over profit the
Regeneration of nature resilience and so
on and this spec is an iterative
document that is continuously shaped by
this whole ecosystem of actors and
evolves based on the collective pulse of
that very
ecosystem so for the time being it's
helped us iterate on speculative Visions
for how different economic relations
could take shape from the old practices
that have historically been unable to
scale to the entirely new ones now
possible it's also helped us discover
some incredible organizations in the
ecosystem that we've been able to help
resource like the center for economic
democracy in Boston which helped
recently put out a fantastic course
called economics for emancipation highly
suggest you all check it out po an
open-source realtime system for
Gathering analyzing and understanding
what large groups of people think in
their own words which has been
instrumental in a project for
deliberative democracy in
Taiwan and people powered an
organization helping to advance
participatory democracy globally who
recently put out a Playbook to help
folks advocate for participatory
programs in their governments and many
other organizations and initiatives just
like
them in this research and joining forces
with what we call this broader ecosystem
of actors has served and will continue
to serve as the foundation upon which we
can iterate on a vision of
infrastructure that can hold a plurality
of Economic and governance
experimentation that provides Pathways
for co-learning co-imaging and
coordination so Spanish poet Antonio
Machado had this quote which translates
to Wanderer there is no path the path is
made by
walking in drawing from these words it's
clear there is no predetermined path not
for this broader ecosystem and not for
one project that path is indeed made by
walking just not alone but together
thank you all very
[Applause]
much